The Sweet Sound of the Accomplishment of Immortality and Wakefulness: A Prayer Invoking the Heart Pledges of the Guru Cintāmaṇicakra Namo guru cintācakrāya! You are the mother of all buddhas and their heirs. The thought of you bestows supreme longevity and wakefulness. Exalted Mother Guru, embodiment of all sources of refuge, As we call to you from the depths of our hearts, embrace us with compassion! Exalted Lady, I pray, align all the conditions for me Henceforth and in all my lives to attain the supreme freedoms and riches, To faithfully follow an authentic spiritual guide, And to increase every excellence found in existence and in peace! Exalted Lady, while grounded in awareness of impermanence and the lower realms' sufferings, Lead me, I pray, to the metropolis of the higher realms Up the stairs of the six recollections, the observance of karmic causality, And the concentrations of the meditative absorptions and formless states! Exalted Lady, the source of suffering in saṃsāra's three realms is karma and afflictions, And the origin is ended by the three trainings. By properly following this path, in the palace of liberation, Grant me, I pray, the relief of happiness and peace! Exalted Lady, most especially, may I know all beings to be my mothers and recall their kindness, And, to repay such kindness, through the peerless bodhisattva conduct Of loving kindness, compassion, and equalizing and exchanging self for others, Help me, I pray, to display the excellent path to omniscience! Exalted Lady, at that time, aid me so that my being may be ripened By pure empowerments and authorizations, so that my sacred pledges and vows may be upheld, All hindrances to my training in the profound meaning subside, And all conducive conditions and good things be multiplied! Exalted Lady, make the Guru and Three Jewels adorn my crown, Make aspiring and engaged bodhicitta dawn in my heart, And, by swiftly completing the two stores of merit and wisdom, Make my being purified! Exalted Lady, help me, through the practice of the four branches of approach and accomplishment, To perfect the concentration that envisions my body As Noble Cintāmaṇicakra's wisdom form, And thereby accomplish meditative absorption! Exalted Lady, through the power of invoking you with profound recitation, Manifest in full as the Lord of the Family, the deathless guardian, And with your blazing wheel, the color of moon crystal, Grant me, I pray, protection from all adversities! Exalted Lady, I entreat you with the light of your bright white nectar, Vanquish the darkness of decline and destitution in the three planes, And with garlands of gleaming gold light, Enrich everything excellent in existence and in peace! Exalted Lady, with your sharp hook of ruby lotus light, Bring all things, both animate and inanimate, under control, And with your lasso of sapphire light, Capture all wicked beings and bind them tight! Exalted Lady, strike me with your pristine emerald light, So that, at that very moment, I attain the supreme and common siddhis! And with your web of maroon light rays, I beseech you, make these siddhis stable and strong! Exalted Lady, with the nectar of compassion flowing from the Lord of the Family, Help restore my longevity, merit, abundance, and youth, And with the rejuvenating nectar from the wheel in my heart, Help me to attain immortality! Exalted Lady, in short, bless appearances, sounds, and awareness As the secrets of your wisdom body, speech, and mind, And through the mundane and supramundane siddhis, Help me, I pray, to accomplish the two goals! Exalted Lady, pacify all decline in the world and in beings, Make the stewards of the teachings live long and the teachings flourish in exposition and practice, And let all beings enjoy the higher realms with the abundance of the Golden Age! I beseech you! Make the light of auspiciousness shine! Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, follower of Śākyamuni, composed this Prayer Invoking the Heart Pledges of the Exalted Lady Cintāmaṇicakra in connection with the stages of the path of the uncommon profound instructions. On the abundantly auspicious first day of the Female Water Ox year (1853) known as Pramādi ("Careless"), Jamyang Legshe Gyatso, a great pandit of the five sciences, also acted as the scribe. May this virtue be a cause for all beings to enjoy the banquet of the attainment of immortality. 
